hi this is presto occur a standard I has
the numbers one through six imagine
rolling the die and recording the
numbers that you roll eventually you
will get one of the numbers that you
already rolled in this sequence the
number three duplicates on the fourth
roll you might get a different set of
numbers when you roll the die but
eventually one of the numbers that you
roll will be the same as a previous
number you've rolled in this sequence
the number five repeats itself and it
happens on the sixth roll so here's the
puzzle for you how quickly does a dive
repeat one of the numbers that you've
already rolled statistically the
question I'm asking is what's the
expected number of rolls until a die
repeats one of the numbers I'm going to
give you a hint to get started when you
roll a die obviously the first number it
cannot be a repeat of any number before
it but you could have the second number
be a repeat of the first number so you
could have the second roll be a repeat
that's the minimum number of rolls until
a die will show the same number on the
other hand on the other extreme you
could roll the numbers one through six
in the first six rolls it could be in
any order but it's possible that you had
all first six rolls be unique numbers
however once you do that the seventh
roll will be a number from one to six so
necessarily the seventh roll will be a
duplicate of one of the first six rolls
so your question is what's the expected
value to make this a multiple choice
question you can think about which
number the answer is closest to is it
closest to two three four five six or
seven rolls
when you're ready you can click on a
link I provided in the video description
or you can click on one of these numbers
it'll bring you to the solution so
what's the answer how quickly does a die
repeat the same number